feat: MAD progress post (#12)
Alystrasz/NorthstarBlog: _posts/2024-08-09-mad-update.md

---
title: "State of progress: MAD"
header:
  image: /assets/images/posts/mad-progress/missing-mod.png
  og_image: /assets/images/posts/mad-progress/missing-mod.png
tags:
  - MAD
author: Alystrasz
last_modified_at: 2024-08-09T17:43:00-01:00
---

Hey, Alystrasz here, to give you some information about the feature I'm currently developing, MAD!

### What is MAD?

> MAD is an acronym that stands for *mod auto-downloading*; the idea of the feature is for your game to download
> some mods that a server requires you to have to be able to join it.

Reviewer: This feels slightly more natural ^^
```suggestion
MAD is an acronym that stands for *mod auto-downloading*; the idea of the feature is for your game to download
mods required by the server as you join it..
```

Author: There's an extra period at the end of the sentence, no?

Reviewer: Whoopsie ^^"
Thanks, fixed :D

Some games are known to integrate this feature, like Counter-Strike or Team Fortress.

On Northstar, currently, when joining a server requiring client-side mods, you will be displayed this message:

<img src="{{ 'assets/images/posts/mad-progress/missing-mod.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Screenshot of the missing mod interface when joining a server" />

This breaks your user experience since it forces you to go download the mod by yourself on the Internet (in practice,
you won't look for the missing mod, and just join another server).

---

I've been working on this feature for two years (first commit on [Aug. 30th, 2022](https://github.com/R2Northstar/NorthstarLauncher/pull/262/commits/114653052972383f9b154d96c581a2b90c483c87)), and progress is slow since there is much to be taken into

> consideration here: according to `git-hours`, I invested at least 258 hours in the launcher part and 197 in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consideration here: according to `git-hours`, I invested at least 258 hours in the launcher part and 197 hours in the
```

saying "hours" twice is fine in this case I think

scripting part.

> Progress is nonetheless made: you might have noticed that we did some *production testing*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Progress is nonetheless being made: you might have noticed that we did some *production testing*
```

of the feature earlier this year through the [Parkour tournament](/blog/parkour-tournament) we organised.

Let's now check where we are on the development of MAD.

### What is done?

#### Verification system

Don't worry, Northstar is *not* going to download malware stuff to your computer! We have a verification system
to avoid doing that.

Basically, your game can only download mods that went through a verification process described here:
[https://github.com/R2Northstar/VerifiedMods](https://github.com/R2Northstar/VerifiedMods);
this process includes mod source code being public and release upload be automatic (by the way, if you want your
gamemode to be auto-downloadable, don't hesitate to submit a request in the aforementioned repository!)

Even though it can always be improved, this verification system is functional and currently supports 5 mods for

> auto-downloading.

Reviewer: We could also reinforce here again that we are happy to take verification requests even if the feature is not done yet ^^

Author: This is literaly said the line before 😄

Reviewer: Can never say it enough but yeah, I get your point. Feel free to resolve ^^

3. Download missing mod archive file;
4. Ensure archive is not corrupted;
5. Extract mod archive to current player profile;
6. Reload mods to add downloaded mod to local mods collection;
7. Server can be joined.

As you can see on the video below, mod downloading actually works™.

<video controls style="max-width: 100%">
    <source src="{{ 'assets/video/posts/mad/autodl-parkour-example.webm' | relative_url }}"
            type="video/webm"
    >
    Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos.
</video>

Ok, I admit things go fast! Here's another example with a bigger mod (a custom map reusing assets of a single
player level):

<video controls style="max-width: 100%">
    <source src="{{ 'assets/video/posts/mad/autodl-s2s-example.webm' | relative_url }}"
            type="video/webm"
    >
    Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos.
</video>

### What's left to be done?

So, why isn't MAD public yet?

Actually, it is deployed, but shielded behind a configuration variable (you have to type `allow_mod_auto_download 1`
in your console to enable it) because we feel like some stuff is missing:

#### Assets reloading (mad only working for gamemodes and basic maps)

> Currently, the game is not enable to reload assets (sounds for instance) without restarting, it means that if

Reviewer: Noticed a small typo and second read now ^^"

```suggestion
Currently, the game is not able to reload assets (sounds for instance) without restarting, it means that if
```

> download a mod including sound assets through MAD, your game will just crash.

Reviewer: You mentioned "sound assets" in the second half of the sentence but it might be useful to mention right at the start what "assets" entails ^^

Author: Addressed in 1b32f165b6f89f9eb5ef816d0cabf9604a7517b3
